legal/README.md, before:

# Legal Productivity Plugin

An AI-powered productivity plugin for in-house legal teams, primarily designed for [Cowork](https://claude.com/product/cowork), Anthropic's agentic desktop application — though it also works in Claude Code. Automates contract review, NDA triage, compliance workflows, legal briefings, and templated responses -- all configurable to your organization's specific playbook and risk tolerances.

> **Disclaimer:** This plugin assists with legal workflows but does not provide legal advice. Always verify conclusions with qualified legal professionals. AI-generated analysis should be reviewed by licensed attorneys before being relied upon for legal decisions.

## Target Personas

- **Commercial Counsel** -- Contract negotiation, vendor management, deal support
- **Product Counsel** -- Product reviews, terms of service, privacy policies, IP matters
- **Privacy / Compliance** -- Data protection regulations, DPA reviews, data subject requests, regulatory monitoring
- **Litigation Support** -- Discovery holds, document review prep, case briefings

## Installation

```
claude plugins add knowledge-work-plugins/legal
```

## Quick Start

### 1. Install the plugin

```
claude plugins add knowledge-work-plugins/legal
```

### 2. Configure your playbook

Create a local settings file to define your organization's standard positions. This is where you encode your team's negotiation playbook, risk tolerances, and standard terms.

In your project's `.claude/` directory, create a `legal.local.md` file:

```markdown
# Legal Playbook Configuration

## Contract Review Positions

### Limitation of Liability
- Standard position: Mutual cap at 12 months of fees paid/payable
- Acceptable range: 6-24 months of fees
- Escalation trigger: Uncapped liability, consequential damages inclusion

### Indemnification
- Standard position: Mutual indemnification for IP infringement and data breach
- Acceptable: Indemnification limited to third-party claims only
- Escalation trigger: Unilateral indemnification obligations, uncapped indemnification

### IP Ownership
- Standard position: Each party retains pre-existing IP; customer owns customer data
- Escalation trigger: Broad IP assignment clauses, work-for-hire provisions for pre-existing IP

### Data Protection
- Standard position: Require DPA for any personal data processing
- Requirements: Sub-processor notification, data deletion on termination, breach notification within 72 hours
- Escalation trigger: No DPA offered, cross-border transfer without safeguards

### Term and Termination
- Standard position: Annual term with 30-day termination for convenience
- Acceptable: Multi-year with termination for convenience after initial term
- Escalation trigger: Auto-renewal without notice period, no termination for convenience

### Governing Law
- Preferred: [Your jurisdiction]
- Acceptable: Major commercial jurisdictions (NY, DE, CA, England & Wales)
- Escalation trigger: Non-standard jurisdictions, mandatory arbitration in unfavorable venue

## NDA Defaults
- Mutual obligations required
- Term: 2-3 years standard, 5 years for trade secrets
- Standard carveouts: independently developed, publicly available, rightfully received from third party
- Residuals clause: acceptable if narrowly scoped

## Response Templates
Configure paths to your template files or define inline templates for common inquiries.
```

### 3. Connect your tools

The plugin works best when connected to your existing tools via MCP. Pre-configured servers include Slack, Box, Egnyte, Atlassian, and Microsoft 365. See [CONNECTORS.md](CONNECTORS.md) for the full list of supported categories and options.

## Commands

### `/review-contract` -- Contract Review Against Playbook

Review a contract against your organization's negotiation playbook. Flags deviations, generates redlines, and provides business impact analysis.

```
/review-contract
```

Accepts: file upload, URL, or pasted contract text. Will ask for context (your side, deadline, focus areas) and review clause-by-clause against your configured playbook.

### `/triage-nda` -- NDA Pre-Screening

Rapid triage of incoming NDAs against standard criteria. Categorizes as GREEN (standard approval), YELLOW (counsel review), or RED (significant issues).

```
/triage-nda
```

### `/vendor-check` -- Vendor Agreement Status

Check the status of existing agreements with a vendor across your connected systems.

```
/vendor-check [vendor name]
```

Reports on existing NDAs, MSAs, DPAs, expiration dates, and key terms.

### `/brief` -- Legal Team Briefing

Generate contextual briefings for your legal work.

```
/brief daily          # Morning brief of legal-relevant items
/brief topic [query]  # Research brief on a specific legal question
/brief incident       # Rapid brief on a developing situation
```

### `/respond` -- Generate Templated Response

Generate a response from your configured templates for common inquiry types.

```
/respond [inquiry-type]
```

Supported inquiry types include: data subject request, discovery hold, vendor question, NDA request, and custom categories you define.

## Skills

| Skill | Description |
|-------|-------------|
| `contract-review` | Playbook-based contract analysis, deviation classification, redline generation |
| `nda-triage` | NDA screening criteria, classification rules, routing recommendations |
| `compliance` | Privacy regulations (GDPR, CCPA), DPA review, data subject requests |
| `canned-responses` | Template management, response categories, escalation triggers |
| `legal-risk-assessment` | Risk severity framework, classification levels, escalation criteria |
| `meeting-briefing` | Meeting prep methodology, context gathering, action item tracking |

## Example Workflows

### Contract Review

1. Receive a vendor contract via email
2. Run `/review-contract` and upload the document
3. Provide context: "We are the customer, need to close by end of quarter, focus on data protection and liability"
4. Receive clause-by-clause analysis with GREEN/YELLOW/RED flags
5. Get specific redline language for YELLOW and RED items
6. Share the analysis with your deal team

### NDA Triage

1. Sales team sends an NDA from a new prospect
2. Run `/triage-nda` and paste or upload the NDA
3. Get instant classification: GREEN (route for signature), YELLOW (specific issues to review), or RED (needs full counsel review)
4. For GREEN NDAs, approve directly; for YELLOW/RED, address flagged issues

### Daily Brief

1. Start your morning with `/brief daily`
2. Get a summary of overnight contract requests, compliance questions, upcoming deadlines, and calendar items needing legal prep
3. Prioritize your day based on urgency and deadlines

### Vendor Check

1. Business team asks about a new engagement with an existing vendor
2. Run `/vendor-check Acme Corp`
3. See existing agreements, expiration dates, and key terms at a glance
4. Know immediately whether you need a new NDA or can proceed under existing terms

## MCP Integration

> If you see unfamiliar placeholders or need to check which tools are connected, see [CONNECTORS.md](CONNECTORS.md).

The plugin connects to your tools through MCP (Model Context Protocol) servers:

| Category | Examples | Purpose |
|----------|----------|---------|
| Chat | Slack, Teams | Team requests, notifications, triage |
| Cloud storage | Box, Egnyte | Playbooks, templates, precedents |
| Office suite | Microsoft 365 | Email, calendar, documents |
| Project tracker | Atlassian (Jira/Confluence) | Matter tracking, tasks |

See [CONNECTORS.md](CONNECTORS.md) for the full list of supported integrations, including CLM, CRM, e-signature, and additional options.

Configure connections in `.mcp.json`. The plugin gracefully degrades when tools are unavailable -- it will note gaps and suggest manual checks.

## Customization

### Playbook Configuration

Your playbook is the heart of the contract review system. Define your positions in `legal.local.md`:

- **Standard positions**: Your preferred contract terms
- **Acceptable ranges**: What you can agree to without escalation
- **Escalation triggers**: Terms that require senior review or outside counsel

### Response Templates

Define templates for common inquiries. Templates support variable substitution and include built-in escalation triggers for situations that should not use a templated response.

### Risk Framework

Customize the risk assessment matrix to match your organization's risk appetite and classification scheme.

## File Structure

```
legal/
├── .claude-plugin/plugin.json
├── .mcp.json
├── README.md
├── commands/
│   ├── review-contract.md
│   ├── triage-nda.md
│   ├── vendor-check.md
│   ├── brief.md
│   └── respond.md
└── skills/
    ├── contract-review/SKILL.md
    ├── nda-triage/SKILL.md
    ├── compliance/SKILL.md
    ├── canned-responses/SKILL.md
    ├── legal-risk-assessment/SKILL.md
    └── meeting-briefing/SKILL.md
```

Commit message:

Add Signeasy e-signature plugin and integrate with legal plugin
New esignature plugin:
- /signature-status: Dashboard view of pending, signed, and expired documents
- /send-reminder: Send signature reminders individually or in bulk
- /document-search: Search across all documents by name, signer, or status
- Skills for document tracking and signature workflow best practices
- Signeasy MCP server configured with direct HTTP transport

Legal plugin integration:
- Add Signeasy as e-signature connector in .mcp.json
- Update vendor-check to search e-signature documents
- Update triage-nda to offer e-signature routing for GREEN NDAs
- Update daily brief to include signature status
- Update README and CONNECTORS with Signeasy references

legal/README.md, after:

# Legal Productivity Plugin

An AI-powered productivity plugin for in-house legal teams, primarily designed for [Cowork](https://claude.com/product/cowork), Anthropic's agentic desktop application — though it also works in Claude Code. Automates contract review, NDA triage, compliance workflows, legal briefings, and templated responses -- all configurable to your organization's specific playbook and risk tolerances.

> **Disclaimer:** This plugin assists with legal workflows but does not provide legal advice. Always verify conclusions with qualified legal professionals. AI-generated analysis should be reviewed by licensed attorneys before being relied upon for legal decisions.

## Target Personas

- **Commercial Counsel** -- Contract negotiation, vendor management, deal support
- **Product Counsel** -- Product reviews, terms of service, privacy policies, IP matters
- **Privacy / Compliance** -- Data protection regulations, DPA reviews, data subject requests, regulatory monitoring
- **Litigation Support** -- Discovery holds, document review prep, case briefings

## Installation

```
claude plugins add knowledge-work-plugins/legal
```

## Quick Start

### 1. Install the plugin

```
claude plugins add knowledge-work-plugins/legal
```

### 2. Configure your playbook

Create a local settings file to define your organization's standard positions. This is where you encode your team's negotiation playbook, risk tolerances, and standard terms.

In your project's `.claude/` directory, create a `legal.local.md` file:

```markdown
# Legal Playbook Configuration

## Contract Review Positions

### Limitation of Liability
- Standard position: Mutual cap at 12 months of fees paid/payable
- Acceptable range: 6-24 months of fees
- Escalation trigger: Uncapped liability, consequential damages inclusion

### Indemnification
- Standard position: Mutual indemnification for IP infringement and data breach
- Acceptable: Indemnification limited to third-party claims only
- Escalation trigger: Unilateral indemnification obligations, uncapped indemnification

### IP Ownership
- Standard position: Each party retains pre-existing IP; customer owns customer data
- Escalation trigger: Broad IP assignment clauses, work-for-hire provisions for pre-existing IP

### Data Protection
- Standard position: Require DPA for any personal data processing
- Requirements: Sub-processor notification, data deletion on termination, breach notification within 72 hours
- Escalation trigger: No DPA offered, cross-border transfer without safeguards

### Term and Termination
- Standard position: Annual term with 30-day termination for convenience
- Acceptable: Multi-year with termination for convenience after initial term
- Escalation trigger: Auto-renewal without notice period, no termination for convenience

### Governing Law
- Preferred: [Your jurisdiction]
- Acceptable: Major commercial jurisdictions (NY, DE, CA, England & Wales)
- Escalation trigger: Non-standard jurisdictions, mandatory arbitration in unfavorable venue

## NDA Defaults
- Mutual obligations required
- Term: 2-3 years standard, 5 years for trade secrets
- Standard carveouts: independently developed, publicly available, rightfully received from third party
- Residuals clause: acceptable if narrowly scoped

## Response Templates
Configure paths to your template files or define inline templates for common inquiries.
```

### 3. Connect your tools

The plugin works best when connected to your existing tools via MCP. Pre-configured servers include Slack, Box, Egnyte, Atlassian, Microsoft 365, and Signeasy. See [CONNECTORS.md](CONNECTORS.md) for the full list of supported categories and options.

## Commands

### `/review-contract` -- Contract Review Against Playbook

Review a contract against your organization's negotiation playbook. Flags deviations, generates redlines, and provides business impact analysis.

```
/review-contract
```

Accepts: file upload, URL, or pasted contract text. Will ask for context (your side, deadline, focus areas) and review clause-by-clause against your configured playbook.

### `/triage-nda` -- NDA Pre-Screening

Rapid triage of incoming NDAs against standard criteria. Categorizes as GREEN (standard approval), YELLOW (counsel review), or RED (significant issues).

```
/triage-nda
```

### `/vendor-check` -- Vendor Agreement Status

Check the status of existing agreements with a vendor across your connected systems.

```
/vendor-check [vendor name]
```

Reports on existing NDAs, MSAs, DPAs, expiration dates, and key terms.

### `/brief` -- Legal Team Briefing

Generate contextual briefings for your legal work.

```
/brief daily          # Morning brief of legal-relevant items
/brief topic [query]  # Research brief on a specific legal question
/brief incident       # Rapid brief on a developing situation
```

### `/respond` -- Generate Templated Response

Generate a response from your configured templates for common inquiry types.

```
/respond [inquiry-type]
```

Supported inquiry types include: data subject request, discovery hold, vendor question, NDA request, and custom categories you define.

## Skills

| Skill | Description |
|-------|-------------|
| `contract-review` | Playbook-based contract analysis, deviation classification, redline generation |
| `nda-triage` | NDA screening criteria, classification rules, routing recommendations |
| `compliance` | Privacy regulations (GDPR, CCPA), DPA review, data subject requests |
| `canned-responses` | Template management, response categories, escalation triggers |
| `legal-risk-assessment` | Risk severity framework, classification levels, escalation criteria |
| `meeting-briefing` | Meeting prep methodology, context gathering, action item tracking |

## Example Workflows

### Contract Review

1. Receive a vendor contract via email
2. Run `/review-contract` and upload the document
3. Provide context: "We are the customer, need to close by end of quarter, focus on data protection and liability"
4. Receive clause-by-clause analysis with GREEN/YELLOW/RED flags
5. Get specific redline language for YELLOW and RED items
6. Share the analysis with your deal team

### NDA Triage

1. Sales team sends an NDA from a new prospect
2. Run `/triage-nda` and paste or upload the NDA
3. Get instant classification: GREEN (route for signature), YELLOW (specific issues to review), or RED (needs full counsel review)
4. For GREEN NDAs, approve directly; for YELLOW/RED, address flagged issues

### Daily Brief

1. Start your morning with `/brief daily`
2. Get a summary of overnight contract requests, compliance questions, upcoming deadlines, and calendar items needing legal prep
3. Prioritize your day based on urgency and deadlines

### Vendor Check

1. Business team asks about a new engagement with an existing vendor
2. Run `/vendor-check Acme Corp`
3. See existing agreements, expiration dates, and key terms at a glance
4. Know immediately whether you need a new NDA or can proceed under existing terms

## MCP Integration

> If you see unfamiliar placeholders or need to check which tools are connected, see [CONNECTORS.md](CONNECTORS.md).

The plugin connects to your tools through MCP (Model Context Protocol) servers:

| Category | Examples | Purpose |
|----------|----------|---------|
| Chat | Slack, Teams | Team requests, notifications, triage |
| Cloud storage | Box, Egnyte | Playbooks, templates, precedents |
| E-signature | [Signeasy](https://signeasy.com) | Track pending and signed documents, send reminders, cancel requests, search signers, manage templates |
| Office suite | Microsoft 365 | Email, calendar, documents |
| Project tracker | Atlassian (Jira/Confluence) | Matter tracking, tasks |

See [CONNECTORS.md](CONNECTORS.md) for the full list of supported integrations, including CLM, CRM, e-signature, and additional options.

Configure connections in `.mcp.json`. The plugin gracefully degrades when tools are unavailable -- it will note gaps and suggest manual checks.

## Customization

### Playbook Configuration

Your playbook is the heart of the contract review system. Define your positions in `legal.local.md`:

- **Standard positions**: Your preferred contract terms
- **Acceptable ranges**: What you can agree to without escalation
- **Escalation triggers**: Terms that require senior review or outside counsel

### Response Templates

Define templates for common inquiries. Templates support variable substitution and include built-in escalation triggers for situations that should not use a templated response.

### Risk Framework

Customize the risk assessment matrix to match your organization's risk appetite and classification scheme.

## File Structure

```
legal/
├── .claude-plugin/plugin.json
├── .mcp.json
├── README.md
├── commands/
│   ├── review-contract.md
│   ├── triage-nda.md
│   ├── vendor-check.md
│   ├── brief.md
│   └── respond.md
└── skills/
    ├── contract-review/SKILL.md
    ├── nda-triage/SKILL.md
    ├── compliance/SKILL.md
    ├── canned-responses/SKILL.md
    ├── legal-risk-assessment/SKILL.md
    └── meeting-briefing/SKILL.md
```
